{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red29\green114\blue66;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c12157\c51373\c32941;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22360\viewh16580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data Scientist Role Play: Profiling and Analyzing the Yelp Dataset Coursera Worksheet
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
This is a 2-part assignment. In the first part, you are asked a series of questions that will help you profile and understand the data just like a data scientist would. For this first part of the assignment, you will be assessed both on the correctness of your findings, as well as the code you used to arrive at your answer. You will be graded on how easy your code is to read, so remember to use proper formatting and comments where necessary.\
\
In the second part of the assignment, you are asked to come up with your own inferences and analysis of the data for a particular research question you want to answer. You will be required to prepare the dataset for the analysis you choose to do. As with the first part, you will be graded, in part, on how easy your code is to read, so use proper formatting and comments to illustrate and communicate your intent as required.\
\
For both parts of this assignment, use this "worksheet." It provides all the questions you are being asked, and your job will be to transfer your answers and SQL coding where indicated into this worksheet so that your peers can review your work. You should be able to use any Text Editor (Windows Notepad, Apple TextEdit, Notepad ++, Sublime Text, etc.) to copy and paste your answers. If you are going to use Word or some other page layout application, just be careful to make sure your answers and code are lined appropriately.\
In this case, you may want to save as a PDF to ensure your formatting remains intact for you reviewer.\
\

\f0\b Part 1: Yelp Dataset Profiling and Understanding
\f1\b0 \
\
\cf3 1. Profile the data by finding the total number of records for each of the tables below:\cf2 \
	\
i. Attribute table = 10000\
ii. Business table = 10000\
iii. Category table = 10000\
iv. Checkin table = 10000\
v. elite_years table = 10000\
vi. friend table = 10000\
vii. hours table = 10000\
viii. photo table = 10000\
ix. review table = 10000\
x. tip table = 10000\
xi. user table = 10000\
\
***********SQL CODE**********\
SELECT COUNT(*)\
FROM table\
*****************************\
\
\cf3 2. Find the total distinct records by either the foreign key or primary key for each table. If two foreign keys are listed in the table, please specify which foreign key.\
\
\cf2 i. Business = id: 10000\
ii. Hours = business_id: 1562\
iii. Category = business_id: 2643\
iv. Attribute = business_id: 1115\
v. Review = id: 10000, business_id: 8090, user_id: 9581\
vi. Checkin = business_id: 493\
vii. Photo = id: 10000, photo: 6493\
viii. Tip = user_id: 537, business_id: 3979\
ix. User = id: 10000\
x. Friend = user_id: 11\
xi. Elite_years = user_id: 2780\
\
Note: Primary Keys are denoted in the ER-Diagram with a yellow key icon.	\
\
***********SQL CODE**********\
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT Keys)\
FROM table\
*****************************\
\
\cf3 3. Are there any columns with null values in the Users table? Indicate "yes," or "no."\
\cf2 \
	Answer: no\
	\
	\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
               SELECT COUNT(*)\
			FROM user\
			WHERE id IS NULL \
			OR name IS NULL\
			OR review_count IS NULL\
			OR yelping_since IS NULL\
			OR useful IS NULL\
			OR funny IS NULL\
			OR cool IS NULL\
			OR fans IS NULL\
			OR average_stars IS NULL\
			OR compliment_hot IS NULL\
			OR compliment_more IS NULL\
			OR compliment_profile IS NULL\
			OR compliment_cute IS NULL\
			OR compliment_list IS NULL\
			OR compliment_note IS NULL\
			OR compliment_plain IS NULL\
			OR compliment_cool IS NULL\
			OR compliment_funny IS NULL\
			OR compliment_writer IS NULL\
			OR compliment_photos IS NULL\
\
\
\cf3 4. For each table and column listed below, display the smallest (minimum), largest (maximum), and average (mean) value for the following fields:\cf2 \
\
	i. Table: Review, Column: Stars\
	\
		min:	1	max:	5	avg: 3.7082\
		\
	\
	ii. Table: Business, Column: Stars\
	\
		min:	1.0	max:	5.0	avg: 3.6549\
		\
	\
	iii. Table: Tip, Column: Likes\
	\
		min:	0	max:	2	avg: 0.0144\
		\
	\
	iv. Table: Checkin, Column: Count\
	\
		min:	1	max:	53	avg: 1.9414\
		\
	\
	v. Table: User, Column: Review_count\
	\
		min:	0	max:	2000	avg: 24.2995\
\
***********SQL CODE**********\
SELECT MIN(Column),MAX(Column),AVG(Column)\
FROM table\
*****************************\
\
\cf3 5. List the cities with the most reviews in descending order:\
\cf2 \
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
		SELECT city,SUM(review_count) AS NUM\
		FROM business\
		GROUP BY city\
		ORDER BY NUM DESC\
	\
	\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 +-----------------+-------+\
| city            |   NUM |\
+-----------------+-------+\
| Las Vegas       | 82854 |\
| Phoenix         | 34503 |\
| Toronto         | 24113 |\
| Scottsdale      | 20614 |\
| Charlotte       | 12523 |\
| Henderson       | 10871 |\
| Tempe           | 10504 |\
| Pittsburgh      |  9798 |\
| Montr\'e9al        |  9448 |\
| Chandler        |  8112 |\
| Mesa            |  6875 |\
| Gilbert         |  6380 |\
| Cleveland       |  5593 |\
| Madison         |  5265 |\
| Glendale        |  4406 |\
| Mississauga     |  3814 |\
| Edinburgh       |  2792 |\
| Peoria          |  2624 |\
| North Las Vegas |  2438 |\
| Markham         |  2352 |\
| Champaign       |  2029 |\
| Stuttgart       |  1849 |\
| Surprise        |  1520 |\
| Lakewood        |  1465 |\
| Goodyear        |  1155 |\
+-----------------+-------+\
(Output limit exceeded, 25 of 362 total rows shown)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb1 6. Find the distribution of star ratings to the business in the following cities:\
\cf2 \
i. Avon\
\
SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	SELECT SUM(review_count) AS Numbers, stars\
	FROM business\
	WHERE city == "Avon"\
	GROUP BY stars\
\
\
Copy and Paste the Resulting Table Below (2 columns \'96 star rating and count):\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +---------+-------+\
| Numbers | stars |\
+---------+-------+\
|      10 |   1.5 |\
|       6 |   2.5 |\
|      88 |   3.5 |\
|      21 |   4.0 |\
|      31 |   4.5 |\
|       3 |   5.0 |\
+---------+-------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
ii. Beachwood\
\
SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
	SELECT SUM(review_count) AS Numbers, stars\
	FROM business\
	WHERE city == "Beachwood"\
	GROUP BY stars\
\
\
Copy and Paste the Resulting Table Below (2 columns \'96 star rating and count):\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +---------+-------+\
| Numbers | stars |\
+---------+-------+\
|       8 |   2.0 |\
|       3 |   2.5 |\
|      11 |   3.0 |\
|       6 |   3.5 |\
|      69 |   4.0 |\
|      17 |   4.5 |\
|      23 |   5.0 |\
+---------+-------+\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb1 7. Find the top 3 users based on their total number of reviews:\
\cf2 		\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
		SELECT review_count, name\
		FROM user\
		ORDER BY review_count DESC\
		LIMIT 3\
	\
		\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:	\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +--------------+--------+\
| review_count | name   |\
+--------------+--------+\
|         2000 | Gerald |\
|         1629 | Sara   |\
|         1339 | Yuri   |\
+--------------+--------+\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb1 8. Does posing more reviews correlate with more fans?\cf2 \
\
	Please explain your findings and interpretation of the results:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
		Not necessarily correlated. Amy, who has the most fans, only has 609 reviews. Yuri has only 76 fans, but has the third most reviews. Some other factors should also be considered.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ***********SQL CODE**********\
SELECT name,review_count,fans\
FROM user\
ORDER BY fans DESC\
*****************************\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +-----------+--------------+------+\
| name      | review_count | fans |\
+-----------+--------------+------+\
| Amy       |          609 |  503 |\
| Mimi      |          968 |  497 |\
| Harald    |         1153 |  311 |\
| Gerald    |         2000 |  253 |\
| Christine |          930 |  173 |\
| Lisa      |          813 |  159 |\
| Cat       |          377 |  133 |\
| William   |         1215 |  126 |\
| Fran      |          862 |  124 |\
| Lissa     |          834 |  120 |\
| Mark      |          861 |  115 |\
| Tiffany   |          408 |  111 |\
| bernice   |          255 |  105 |\
| Roanna    |         1039 |  104 |\
| Angela    |          694 |  101 |\
| .Hon      |         1246 |  101 |\
| Ben       |          307 |   96 |\
| Linda     |          584 |   89 |\
| Christina |          842 |   85 |\
| Jessica   |          220 |   84 |\
| Greg      |          408 |   81 |\
| Nieves    |          178 |   80 |\
| Sui       |          754 |   78 |\
| Yuri      |         1339 |   76 |\
| Nicole    |          161 |   73 |\
+-----------+--------------+------+\
(Output limit exceeded, 25 of 10000 total rows shown)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb1 9. Are there more reviews with the word "love" or with the word "hate" in them?\
\cf2 \
	Answer: Yes. There are 1780 reviews with \'93love\'94 and 232 reviews with \'93hate\'94\
\
	\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 		SELECT COUNT(*)\
		FROM review\
		WHERE text LIKE "%love%" \
\
		SELECT COUNT(*)\
		FROM review\
		WHERE text LIKE \'93%hate%\'94 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\cf3 10. Find the top 10 users with the most fans:\cf2 \
\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
		SELECT name,fans\
		FROM user\
		ORDER BY fans DESC\
		LIMIT 10\
	\
	\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +-----------+------+\
| name      | fans |\
+-----------+------+\
| Amy       |  503 |\
| Mimi      |  497 |\
| Harald    |  311 |\
| Gerald    |  253 |\
| Christine |  173 |\
| Lisa      |  159 |\
| Cat       |  133 |\
| William   |  126 |\
| Fran      |  124 |\
| Lissa     |  120 |\
+-----------+------+\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \cb1 11. Is there a strong relationship (or correlation) between having a high number of fans and being listed as "useful" or "funny?" Out of the top 10 users with the highest number of fans, what percent are also listed as \'93useful\'94 or \'93funny\'94?\
\
\cf2 Key:\
0% - 25% - Low relationship\
26% - 75% - Medium relationship\
76% - 100% - Strong relationship\
	\
	SQL code used to arrive at answer:\
\
	SELECT name,fans,useful,funny\
	FROM user\
	ORDER BY fans DESC\
	LIMIT 10\
\
	Copy and Paste the Result Below:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +-----------+------+--------+--------+\
| name      | fans | useful |  funny |\
+-----------+------+--------+--------+\
| Amy       |  503 |   3226 |   2554 |\
| Mimi      |  497 |    257 |    138 |\
| Harald    |  311 | 122921 | 122419 |\
| Gerald    |  253 |  17524 |   2324 |\
| Christine |  173 |   4834 |   6646 |\
| Lisa      |  159 |     48 |     13 |\
| Cat       |  133 |   1062 |    672 |\
| William   |  126 |   9363 |   9361 |\
| Fran      |  124 |   9851 |   7606 |\
| Lissa     |  120 |    455 |    150 |\
+-----------+------+--------+--------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\
	\
	Please explain your findings and interpretation of the results:\
\
Out of the top 10 users with the highest number of fans, 100% are also listed as either \'93useful\'94 or \'93funny\'94. So there is a strong correlation between having a high number of fans and being listed as \'93useful\'94 or \'93funny\'94.\
\
\

\f0\b Part 2: Inferences and Analysis
\f1\b0 \
\
\cf3 1. Pick one city and category of your choice and group the businesses in that city or category by their overall star rating. Compare the businesses with 2-3 stars to the businesses with 4-5 stars and answer the following questions. Include your code.\cf2 \
	\
i. Do the two groups you chose to analyze have a different distribution of hours?\
\
I picked Toronto and Food for this question. Yes. The restaurants with only 2.5 stars open from 8:00-22:00 on Saturday. The places with higher rating stars open late on Saturday. \
\
The results from SQL is shown below:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+\
| name         | city    | category | stars | hours                |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+\
| Loblaws      | Toronto | Food     |   2.5 | Saturday|8:00-22:00  |\
| Halo Brewery | Toronto | Food     |   4.0 | Saturday|11:00-21:00 |\
| Cabin Fever  | Toronto | Food     |   4.5 | Saturday|16:00-2:00  |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
ii. Do the two groups you chose to analyze have a different number of reviews?\
Yes. The group with 2-3 stars has less review (10) compared with the group with higher rating stars.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+\
| name         | city    | category | stars | hours                | review_count |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+\
| Loblaws      | Toronto | Food     |   2.5 | Saturday|8:00-22:00  |           10 |\
| Halo Brewery | Toronto | Food     |   4.0 | Saturday|11:00-21:00 |           15 |\
| Cabin Fever  | Toronto | Food     |   4.5 | Saturday|16:00-2:00  |           26 |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2          \
         \
iii. Are you able to infer anything from the location data provided between these two groups? Explain.\
\
No really. They have different locations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-------------+\
| name         | city    | category | stars | hours                | review_count | address              | postal_code |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-------------+\
| Loblaws      | Toronto | Food     |   2.5 | Saturday|8:00-22:00  |           10 | 2280 Dundas Street W | M6R 1X3     |\
| Halo Brewery | Toronto | Food     |   4.0 | Saturday|11:00-21:00 |           15 | 247 Wallace Avenue   | M6H 1V5     |\
| Cabin Fever  | Toronto | Food     |   4.5 | Saturday|16:00-2:00  |           26 | 1669 Bloor Street W  | M6P 1A6     |\
+--------------+---------+----------+-------+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-------------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
SQL code used for analysis:\
SELECT\
business.name\
, business.city\
, category.category\
, business.stars\
,hours.hours,\
business.review_count,\
business.address,\
business.postal_code\
FROM (business INNER JOIN category ON business.id = category.business_id) INNER JOIN hours ON hours.business_id = business.id\
WHERE business.city = 'Toronto' AND category.category = "Food"\
GROUP BY business.stars;\
\
\cf3 2. Group business based on the ones that are open and the ones that are closed. What differences can you find between the ones that are still open and the ones that are closed? List at least two differences and the SQL code you used to arrive at your answer.\cf2 \
		\
i. Difference 1:\
         The ones that are still open have more reviews on average than ones that are closed\
         \
ii. Difference 2:\
         There are more business that are still open listed as \'93useful\'94 or \'93funny\'94.\
         \
         \
SQL code used for analysis:\
\
SELECT AVG(b.stars),SUM(b.review_count),AVG(b.review_count),COUNT(r.useful)+COUNT(r.funny),is_open\
FROM business b INNER JOIN review r ON b.id = r.id\
GROUP BY b.is_open\
	\
Results:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +---------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+---------+\
|  AVG(b.stars) | SUM(b.review_count) | AVG(b.review_count) | COUNT(r.useful)+COUNT(r.funny) | is_open |\
+---------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+---------+\
|           2.0 |                   4 |                 4.0 |                              2 |       0 |\
| 2.96153846154 |                 504 |       38.7692307692 |                             26 |       1 |\
+---------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+---------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\
\cf3 3. For this last part of your analysis, you are going to choose the type of analysis you want to conduct on the Yelp dataset and are going to prepare the data for analysis.\
\cf2 \
Ideas for analysis include: Parsing out keywords and business attributes for sentiment analysis, clustering businesses to find commonalities or anomalies between them, predicting the overall star rating for a business, predicting the number of fans a user will have, and so on. These are just a few examples to get you started, so feel free to be creative and come up with your own problem you want to solve. Provide answers, in-line, to all of the following:\
	\
i. Indicate the type of analysis you chose to do:\
         Here I chose to study the preference among different types of food on yelp. \
         \
ii. Write 1-2 brief paragraphs on the type of data you will need for your analysis and why you chose that data:\
         I will pick several types of food including \'93Chinese\'94,\'94Mexican\'94,\'94Korean\'94,\'94French\'94,\'94Italian\'94,\'94Japanese\'94 and \'93Indian\'94. Then I will analyze their star ratings and number of reviews so that I can get some insights on which type of food is popular on yelp.               \
                  \
iii. Output of your finished dataset:\
         
\f2 \cf4 \cb5 +----------+----------------------+---------------+-------------------+-----------+\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 | category | Number_Of_Resturants |    AVG(stars) | AVG(review_count) | city      |\
+----------+----------------------+---------------+-------------------+-----------+\
| Korean   |                    7 |           4.5 |               8.0 | Toronto   |\
| French   |                   12 |           4.0 |     135.083333333 | Las Vegas |\
| Chinese  |                   13 | 3.76923076923 |     423.230769231 | Las Vegas |\
| Mexican  |                   28 |         3.625 |              73.0 | Edinburgh |\
| Italian  |                   13 | 3.53846153846 |     78.2307692308 | Montr\'e9al  |\
| Indian   |                    6 |           3.5 |              32.0 | Aurora    |\
| Japanese |                   20 |         3.475 |             22.85 | Toronto   |\
+----------+----------------------+---------------+-------------------+-----------+
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2          \
iv. Provide the SQL code you used to create your final dataset:\
\
SELECT c.category,COUNT(b.name) AS Number_Of_Resturants,AVG(stars),AVG(review_count),b.city\
FROM (business b INNER JOIN hours h ON b.id = h.business_id) INNER JOIN category c ON c.business_id = b.id\
WHERE c.category IN ("Chinese","Mexican","French","Italian","Korean","Japanese","Indian") \
GROUP BY c.category\
ORDER BY AVG(stars) DESC\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}